Trump announces Morocco latest Arab country to recognise Israel
 
"+o.itemList.length+" "+this.config.text.ariaShown+"
"+this.config.text.ariaClosed+"
Morocco has agreed to normalise relations with Israel, Donald Trump has announced, as a part of a deal which sees the US recognise its claim over the disputed Western Sahara region.
The north African country becomes the fourth in the region to join the Abraham Accord, and set aside hostilities with Israel in the past four months.
The US president, who has just over a month left in office, on Thursday tweeted said the two countries would restore diplomatic ties - reopening liaison offices in Rabat and Tel Aviv and the eventual opening of embassies. It would also include joint overflight rights for airlines.
“Another HISTORIC breakthrough today!” Mr Trump wrote on Twitter. “Our two GREAT friends Israel and the Kingdom of Morocco have agreed to full diplomatic relations – a massive breakthrough for peace in the Middle East!”
The US will in return recognise the country&#39;s claim over Western Sahara, the former Spanish North African territory that has been a long-running dispute that has confounded international negotiators for decades, the White House said in a statement.
It said the administration will open a new US consulate in Dakhla, Western Sahara territory, &quot;to promote economic and business opportunities for the region&quot; following a phone call between Mr Trump and&nbsp;King Mohammed VI of Morocco.
Virtually no other country recognises Morocco’s claim to the Western Sahara,&nbsp;an arid and sparsely populated strip of land which&nbsp;has been under Moroccan control since 1975, when Spain, the occupying power, pulled out its forces.
Last month, The Polisario Front, the organisation seeking independence for the disputed territory launched attacks on Moroccan forces after ending a 30-year ceasefire.
Since then The Polisario Front has sought independence while the United Nations has been trying to organise a referendum on self-determination. The reawakening of tensions in the long-frozen conflict could add to instability in the region.
Oubi Bchraya, a&nbsp;representative of the Polisario Front, said it &quot;regrets highly&quot; the US decision.
&quot;This will not change an inch of the reality of the conflict and the right of the people of Western Sahara to self determination,&quot; he said, adding The Polisario would continue its struggle.
Morocco, a country with centuries of Jewish history which has long been rumoured to be ready to establish ties with Israel, follows the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Sudan.&nbsp;
Mr Trump has hoped for other Arab countries to join, but Saudi Arabia has so far refused and others have much deeper conflict with Israel.
The president&#39;s aide and son-in-law Jared Kushner said Thursday it was only a matter of time for Saudi Arabia to normalise relations with Israel, following close ally Morocco.
&quot;Israel and Saudi Arabia coming together and having full normalization at this point is an inevitability, but the timeframe, obviously, will come - is something that has to be worked out,&quot; Mr Kushner told reporters.
