How do you wear this thing?
Hmm.
Mm mm mm.
Not too many cables and stuff.
Original.
Is recorded?
Okay?
Okay so welcome everyone.
So we are here for the kickoff meeting of uh the process of designing a new remote control.
So I will first start with a warm welcome opening stuff, then uh we will uh see what will be uh our product and what will be the different step we will have to design it.
And uh then we will uh discuss if we have few ideas and we will uh end uh by uh dispatching the different task you will be you will have to fulfil to complete this process.
So sorry?
Uh.
Just one thing.
Uh, you said twenty-five minutes, but I have something else to do uh, so gotta have another meeting uh soon, so maybe you could hurry up a bit It's true.
I have another meeting so if you could uh Yeah.
You have another meeting soon?
So you have to be quick.
Yeah, for the lawnmower project.
Okay.
Okay.
So the the goal is to have a remote control so to have an advantage over our competitors we have to be original, we have to be trendy and we have to also try to be user-friendly.
So uh the design step will be divided in three uh main points.
First it will be the functional design.
Third is the conceptual design and then is the desired design.
So the functional design is to identify the main user needs, the technical function the remote control should fulfil.
And then we will move to f conceptual design where we'll specify the different component involved, what kind of user interf interface we want and what are the different uh trend in user interface and stuff like that.
And then the desired devi design will consist in uh specifically implementing and detailing the choice we've uh made in the second point.
So I will now ask you which is very important for the design of a new remote control for to uh each of us to to draw uh your favourite animal on the white board.
What an original idea.
Do you have any idea of which animal you want to show us?
Orangutan.
Okay that's good.
No no n You should write y the name I think.
n n You should If you want to react uh about this wonderful drawing uh I'll let you uh comment.
Can I give you the no?
But I don't have to say anything.
When I'm drawing the orangutan.
It's an abstract drawing of an orangutan.
Okay it's an abstract drawing.
Yes.
I think it's nice and original.
I don't have a red colour.
Usually orangutans have red hair so this is a very important but I don't have red pen, so Yes.
Okay.
You want to draw something Christine?
Okay uh sorry.
You have to imagine a little bit um.
This Sorry too uh.
Of course your animal is recorded so it's not lost.
Yes.
I know.
Is this uh Ah okay it's pretty.
Wha what is this strange beast?
Is it beautiful?
