Ah yeah.
Maybe we can have uh something you whistle and uh the remote control uh beep.
Yeah.
Barks.
Yeah, barks, yeah.
Barks.
So we can uh have a whistle uh remote control?
Yeah.
Yeah whistle.
I don't know, whistle-able?
Whistle tracking.
Th Whistle tracking yeah.
Whistle tracking remote control.
That's a good idea, that's very original and that's can uh improve.
That's that's quite cool, but uh of course we you don't normally need uh any audio uh recording stuff on your remote control right?
Yeah d d uh.
So i it's just going to add t to the cost.
Yeah but s still we have to mm we have to have an advantage over our competitors.
I think this is a good advantage.
It's cool.
I think I like the idea, but I'm not sure about the what you, who is giving who's giving who's giving our budget.
Yeah.
We have to ask Yeah.
Who's Yeah.
We have to ask the quest of that's uh design to the uh Industrial um Designer.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Which is you.
'Kay.
yeah Okay.
Okay so try to find that for next meeting.
Okay.
So next meeting is in thirty minutes or so uh.
Don't panic.
Don't pani.
So so I will ask the Industrial Designer to find out more about this industrial design so any working any working function we have discussed.
Mm-hmm.
So then I will ask the User Interf Interface Designer to to think about the point we discussed like the number of buttons, the the fact that is lighted or not, things like that, and what would be convenient for the user.
Mm-hmm.
And also um I will ask the Market Expert to uh try to find out what are the absolute requirements, what is absolutely needed in a remote control uh for the user.
So.
And then uh I will uh just ask you to think about that and uh look at your mail because you will receive uh some good advice soon.
Mm.
So.
Thank you I think that's all for this point.
Good.
Mm-hmm.
Uh, so we come back in five minutes?
Half an hour.
Anyway you will receive some messages.
Be careful.
You eat it?
Does it move uh?
Okay, but I don't know if it uh is still correctly uh We'll see.
Ah.